dbt retry command (#3556)
dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/reference/commands/retry.md

---
title: "About dbt retry command"
sidebar_label: "retry"
id: "retry"
---

> `dbt retry` re-executes the last `dbt` command from the node point of failure. If the previously executed `dbt` command was successful, `retry` will finish as a no op. 

Reviewer: What is a "no op?" If it stands for something we might want to write it out. Or ink to docs about it?

Author: I spelled it out since it wasn't apparent to me, either.

Reviewer 2: Sorry, no-op is no-operation (i.e., do nothing).

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/NOP_(code)

> `dbt retry` re-executes the last `dbt` command from the node point of failure. If the previously executed `dbt` command was successful, `retry` will finish as a no op. 

Author: ```suggestion
`dbt retry` re-executes the last `dbt` command from the node point of failure. If the previously executed `dbt` command was successful, `retry` will finish as no operation. 
```

> `dbt retry` re-executes the last `dbt` command from the node point of failure. If the previously executed `dbt` command was successful, `retry` will finish as no operation. 

Author: ```suggestion
`dbt retry` re-executes the last `dbt` command from the node point of failure. If the previously executed `dbt` command was successful, `retry` will finish as `no operation`. 
```

> `dbt retry` re-executes the last `dbt` command from the node point of failure. If the previously executed `dbt` command was successful, `retry` will finish as `no operation`. 

Reviewer: Does this mean if you run a `dbt retry` when the previous `dbt` command succeeded, then nothing happens?

Reviewer 2: Yes, correct. 
It'll show a message like “no nodes selected”.

Retry works with the following commands:

- [`build`](/reference/commands/build)
- [`compile`](/reference/commands/compile)
- [`seed`](/reference/commands/seed)
- [`snapshot`](/reference/commands/build)
- [`test`](/reference/commands/test)
- [`run`](/reference/commands/run)
- [`run-operation`](/reference/commands/run-operation)

> `dbt retry` will execute from the node failures recorded in the run_results.json. Executing `dbt retry` without correcting the previous failures will garner idempotent results.

Reviewer: Might be a good place to add a glossary entry for idempotent. https://docs.getdbt.com/terms/idempotent which I think would be:
`<Term id="idempotent" />`

Reviewer: > `dbt retry` will execute from the node failures recorded in the run_results.json

What is the advice here? Are we asking people to make sure they check run_resuts.json and fix any failures?

Author: They're not expected to do anything with the file itself, we just wanted to give a behind the curtains look at how the feature works. It references that json to determine where to start the retry. Does adding the parenthesis help?

Reviewer 2: @runleonarun Users should not edit `run_results.json` themselves, but its output is used by `retry`.

> `dbt retry` will execute from the node failures recorded in the run_results.json. Executing `dbt retry` without correcting the previous failures will garner idempotent results.

Author: ```suggestion
`dbt retry` will execute from the node failures (recorded in the run_results.json). Executing `dbt retry` without correcting the previous failures will garner <Term id="idempotent" /> results.
```

> `dbt retry` references **run_results.json** to determine where to start. Executing `dbt retry` without correcting the previous failures will garner <Term id="idempotent" /> results.

Reviewer: This is much clearer, thank you!

> `dbt retry` references **run_results.json** to determine where to start. Executing `dbt retry` without correcting the previous failures will garner <Term id="idempotent" /> results.

Reviewer 2: Probably worth mentioning here that it looks in the `target/` directory by default, but a different directory can be passed in with the `--state` flag.

> `dbt retry` references **run_results.json** to determine where to start. Executing `dbt retry` without correcting the previous failures will garner <Term id="idempotent" /> results.

Author: ```suggestion
`dbt retry` references [run_results.json](/reference/artifacts/run-results-json) to determine where to start. Executing `dbt retry` without correcting the previous failures will garner <Term id="idempotent" /> results.
```

> `dbt retry` will execute from the node failures (recorded in the run_results.json). Executing `dbt retry` without correcting the previous failures will garner <Term id="idempotent" /> results.

Author: ```suggestion
`dbt retry` references **run_results.json** to determine where to start. Executing `dbt retry` without correcting the previous failures will garner <Term id="idempotent" /> results.
```

> `dbt retry` reuses the selectors from the previously executed command.

Reviewer: Should we link to the [Methods](https://deploy-preview-3556--docs-getdbt-com.netlify.app/reference/node-selection/methods#the-state-method) page or [YAML selectors](https://deploy-preview-3556--docs-getdbt-com.netlify.app/reference/node-selection/yaml-selectors) page to provide more info in case they need it?

> `dbt retry` reuses the selectors from the previously executed command.

Author: ```suggestion
`dbt retry` reuses the [selectors](/reference/node-selection/yaml-selectors) from the previously executed command.
```
